everyone all over this beautiful world
of ours Laszlo Montgomery again coming
to you as always from the China history
podcast calm I did leave you hanging
last week didn't I well today we're
gonna get right into the launching of
the Cultural Revolution mid-1966 is when
the whole thing finally reaches critical
mass let's quickly review last week's
lead-up to part 2 1954 Khrushchev secret
speech really spooks Mao then things
fall apart between China and the Soviet
Union until 1964 when Khrushchev was
overthrown and Brezhnev took over by now
Moll sees a Cassius and a Brutus behind
every bush in Mao's omnipotent power and
prestige took a huge hit from the
blowback from the Great Leap Forward
Punga hawai dared to speak up privately
mind you not in front of anyone else
that this whole idea might have sounded
good on paper but didn't seem to work
out too well
this couldn't have been easy for Mao to
do get rid of Poong death why they were
both born right around the same area in
Shanghai and Hunan Mao five years before
Poong they met in the late 1920s Mao
Poong chuda chuda not from whom and he
was from Sichuan Poong and Mao both
spoke the same dialect you know that
means a lot they used to have meals
together under the stars leading the
revolution building the new China and
when this decent guy Pongo fi who came
from the poorest of poor in a poor part
of China when he says tomorrow
you know this Great Leap Forward thing
wasn't such a good idea
well Mao sacrificed Poong immediately
and when he hung him out to dry in front
of all the top party leaders at Liu Shan
his message was look what I did to my
closest friend for my Josh young my
homie he went against me look what I did
to him anyone else got anything to say
about the great leap that was a major
fork in the road for the CCP in 1959 if
the prevailing attitude amongst the
highest leaders was to be careful around
Mao after pom Delphi was whacked they
really knew they were walking on
eggshells wherever and whenever at
concerned mouth but as we know so vast
and in-your-face was that devastation
caused by the famine that followed the
great leap that even Mao himself had to
make some kind of Mayock open you know
to prove he was a good sport the great
man stepped back and allowed the people
who knew what they were doing to take
over the government and the party Mao
the great philosopher and theorem would
retired to the sidelines and just sort
of be a chairman emeritus to be
consulted on all kinds of matters that
might require his sagacity except they
didn't come too often and Mao even saw
himself satirized in public he began to
see his whole legacy being methodically
and slowly deconstructed and he didn't
like that not that any one of us can
ever know what it was like to be Mao and
imagine how he was looking at all this
but he was not happy at all now there's
something else that has to be emphasized
in addition to fighting back against
those who were overtly err inadvertently
trying to diminish his legacy the other
thing that got under my skin was the way
that it seemed only lip service was
being paid to ideology Chairman Mao
truly believed that the masses of
peasants and workers had to continuously
be politically indoctrinated by all
these mass movements he felt you had to
constantly stir things up and keep a
nice froth going in order to make this
whole thing work you couldn't sit still
and fall back to the same old ways with
the same old traditional ruling elite
running things from the top down if this
happened then it was only natural that
everything would revert to the kind of
system that the revolution had tried to
overthrow but the other guys were saying
tomorrow they said yeah but if we do
what you say the economy is gonna tank
and you know normal orderly Society will
break down into every man for himself
but because of what happened to ponga
why no one could actually say that or
even infer it so his mouth stayed on the
sidelines
62 63 64 65 trying to show everyone he's
he still had it the top leaders were
doing their utmost to balance the
building of the Chinese economy and
state and at the same time having to put
up with miles demands it wasn't easy
so first goes Pongo fly and in this
episode it's gonna be another Poong this
time Beijing mayor party boss and
all-around strong man in the capital
Punk John we're gonna feature Punk John
in another podcast just focusing on him
one day but for now he is going to be
the first of Miles victims and to give
you an idea how powerful he was back in
Pung in addition to being the top guy in
the capital was also chairman of the
Standing Committee of the NPC the
National People's Congress so that was
like whooping caught today
they weren't ranked the same but just
trying to illustrate punk John was an
extremely high ranking member of the
party elite he was the first one to get
it he had his old friend Kong's Xiang to
thank for that
now we also introduced Lin Bo in the
last episode he replaced pon da hai as
the defense minister and cut a secret
deal with Mao whereby Lin would bring
the army over to my side and you know
carry out whatever political
indoctrination that was necessary and
would be sure to stuff the ranks of the
party with members from the military you
know at the same time he'd he'd watch
miles back then ma makes a very
calculated move and in late February
1965 he sends his wife Jeong Ching to
Shanghai and tells Lee and to find a
place for her
so Lynn Piaf sticks Jung Chang and the
cultural department to the PLA and there
she just blossoms and starts networking
with all the hotheads and radicals of
Shanghai and all the while she's
reporting everything back to the
Chairman and to Cong Chun so right away
Myo knows he is a hugely untapped power
base down there in Shanghai where the
Communist Party was born so as our story
opens today end of 65 beginning of 66
the battle lines are clearly being drawn
the Maoists on one side you
in addition to the chairman this
includes everything Lin Biao brought to
the table namely the PLA and now this
brand new and powerful elements these
young student radicals based in and
around Shanghai this presented a whole
new potential pool of energy and
revolutionary fervor to tap into
students and young people were the best
in Mao's way of thinking their brains
weren't yet tainted by the old
corrupting traditional ways so let's
start with the whole hi Dre thing the
eminent literary star Wu Han served also
in an honorary role as vice mayor of
Beijing he was one of pung-chun's people
very respected for his work on Ming
Dynasty history he wrote an article and
then turned the article into a play
called hydrate puck one hired a
dismissed from office as I explained
last time hi ray
live during the time of the cha ching
emperor of the Ming Dynasty and he spoke
up against some of the excesses of the
emperor and for his honesty he was
rewarded with a dismissal from his
imperial post now anyone with some
historical background and some common
sense would be able to easily conclude
this play was pretty much an allegory
for what mala did for pongo by but no
one would come out and you know say it
for to do so might invite unwanted
trouble so the strategy Poong Jung took
once the heat got turned up on this
issue was to do what you know the party
leaders always did in these cases they
looked into it prepared a nice big fat
detailed report and concluded nothing
here nothing to be alarmed about we're
on top of a chairman mao so they sort of
shined him on and hoped ma would drop
the matter with pang Jun Mao was gonna
show he wasn't playing games anymore and
the way he got to Punk Jun was through
Wuhan and the way he got to Wuhan was
via Chongqing and the way gentian got to
Wuhan was through yawen Yuen yawen UN
was one of the future gang of four
wheels within wheels now one last thing
before we set off this first pile of
dynamite that launches the
Cultural Revolution I want to mention
how lindau seized
complete control of the military Mao
made him the defense minister but that
didn't mean Lin had everyone's loyalty
the military was still laced with pongo
hi people these were the professional
military soldiers who cared more about
defending the country than about singing
political songs and studying party
propaganda you know and that kind of
thing these were the guys Lin Bo had to
get rid of in order to do what he had to
do and that was politicized the PLA is a
force to support Mao rather than to say
oh how shall one say this than to defend
the Chinese nation now to do this he had
to get rid of a certain guy Lal reaching
law sort of stood for all that the
professional no-nonsense PLA was all
about Lindau he had to get rid of this
guy and root out his whole power base
but there was only one catch Chairman
Mao really liked this guy he called him
tall law yeah he liked him but Mao was
willing to betray him to get what he
ultimately wanted so he threw this
decent man belong marcher military hero
general in the army he threw him under
the bus and Lin Bo made fast work of law
reaching this is all in the final
quarter of 1965 and after running law
through the wringer for the better part
of early 1966 in April of that year law
was out and so are all of his
lieutenants and allies the military was
now in the hands of Lin Bo and if he had
detractors they were laying real low so
October 1965 an interesting thing
happens Mao bolts from Beijing and sets
up shop in the south mostly in Shanghai
and a nice villa in Hangzhou on West
Lake he stays there for nine months this
is where he's planning his next move and
it's down there in Hangzhou were both
young king and conjunct eped whispering
and Mao's air about how he had to do
something about this Wuhan matter
clearly Wu Hans 1961 play high grade
dismissed from office was
direct full frontal assault on the
person of the Chairman and everyone knew
it and they both really rile up the
Chairman and Mao didn't need too much
persuading on this point so here's how
they lit the match that lit the fuse
this is where yahwea and gets involved
yeah in John 20 Oh another member of the
Gang of Four were propagandists working
for the radical Maoist Shanghai party
boss
coaching shirt ku was firmly in Mao's
camp so he got one of his guys to write
this article that would set the record
straight about Wuhan in his play this
was the last thing could she sure did
before he up and died from lung cancer
shortly thereafter so under orders from
mall junk King has 33 year old yah when
you're in write this article that
attacked Wu Hans play and he clearly
showed it was anti mile anti-party anti
proletariat you know you name it a
poisonous weed after many rights and
rewrites Mao approved it for publication
in the paper so this article was
published on November 10th in the
shanghai paper when clay ball and the
next day in the liberation daily it
didn't run in any Beijing papers because
no one in their right mind up there was
gonna publish anything or shine any
light on any article that was critical
of punk jun and then something shocking
happened just as Yala's article hit the
streets of shanghai mao issued a central
document or the user known as john feh
that you know he is the CCP chairman had
the authority to do sort of like an
executive order that no one could say
anything about no matter what in this
John feh he dismissed young shun-kun as
head of the party's general office which
was sort of a central services for all
internal party documents and
communication among other things and in
young shank instead was placed another
person who would join the rogues gallery
of the Cultural Revolution this was one
bone Sheen he was a major general who
ran unit 834 one that among other things
was the palace guard that provided
security for the Politburo members he
also personally guarded all access to
Mao not even John Chiang
get face time with her husband unless
Wang dong Ching said it was okay Mao
trusted Wang dong Ching almost like no
one else
Mao then set his trap up nicely
pong John knew his goose was cooked
whichever direction he turned if he
ignored the article written by y'all
that meant it was all true and he was a
revisionist calling for peaceful
evolution that you know the article
accused him of being if he attacked it
it was like an attack on mom it was only
on November 26 that Jo and I figured out
what was going on and that y'all was
simply mouths mouthpiece and that if pom
knew what was good for him
better get that article published in
Beijing and he did this on November 26th
and then the next day yawen urines
article was printed in the People's
Daily the mouthpiece of the party Poong
Jong fought the good fight though he did
his best to marshal his forces to fight
back and say this whole thing was to
purely an academic matter not political
at all and all kinds of articles were
written in the wake of publishing this
yawen un piece that you know tried to
deflect the argument and in December Lin
piell's witch-hunt to destroy his enemy
and all retching came to fruition and
law and his people were out this was
particularly distasteful to the party
leaders such as Joel Tong yo and Poong
war was a good man then a four-star
general with you know long march street
cred yet he was unceremoniously dumped
then for the next few months he was
criticized and even his longtime friends
and allies had no choice but to chime in
or else and then on March 18th law tried
to commit suicide by jumping off the
roof of his house he survived but he
demolished his legs and when pungen
delivered the final report to Mao on the
struggle against Laurie Ching his
attempted suicide was all the proof that
was needed to show his crimes were all
real and February 4th was 1966 now King
Kong Jones
February outline this was a document
that was supposed to put this whole
Wuhan hi ray affair to rest it concluded
that this whole
wuhan thing was academic and not
political at all everyone signed off on
this Ponyo of course and lou de from the
cultural department but not only them
joanne la yoshi
come shopping they all signed off mao
was down in Wuhan when he received it on
February 7th Pung John personally
delivered it with loot Dini and Kang
Xiong present and along she from the
People's Daily and they presented it to
Mao and Mao you know argued with them of
course and insisted it was in this thing
is political in nature and so Mao didn't
approve it PUMS February outlined he
didn't approve it but he also didn't
disapprove it so it ended up being
circulated at the top of the party and
phangan breathe a sigh of relief because
it seemed in his eyes Mao was finally
dropping this matter the only problem
was Mao didn't drop the matter for the
first few months of 1966 Poong John was
sort of left twisting in the wind
he thought he dodged that bullet but he
couldn't be sure at the end of March Mao
was holed up with the likes of Kong Jung
Jung sang Jun to enjoy planning his
strategy and making it plainly known
that he wasn't happy how Punk John
handled this whole thing so and March
early April suddenly everyone woke up
and saw what was happening and the
ghosts of the 1959 Liu Shan conference
started to creep up on those who
wondered secretly what might happen to
them if they went against the Chairman
on this one so even though Joe and dung
had to go against punk Jong when the
moment came and come it did on April
16th 1966 of a Standing Committee
meeting the sanctum sanctorum of the CCP
at one of these meetings they all agreed
Poong John committed errors namely he
contravened Mao Zedong Thought and
opposed Chairman Mao three days later
for the sake of miles convenience a
meeting of the Standing Committee was
called down to Hangzhou and Poong
attended this one in person and everyone
knew at the perp
so this meeting was ma was gonna extract
his pound of flesh from Poong for
standing up to him all this time and not
showing the respect that was due Poong
got there and he you know he asked I
have twenty minutes alone with Mao but
chairman denied him there wasn't gonna
be a whole lot of Mercy for punkin on
this day and then he was out and if
Poong John thought that it couldn't get
much worse than this he was sorely
mistaken
and not that lil Shao Qi could have
saved Poong but he was conveniently on
an overseas tour and not present until
after it was a fete accompli but not
having no Xiao Qi around certainly made
it much easier for Mao to steamroll this
whole thing forward
on April 24 a central party document
came out that annulled
PUMS February outline that you know had
concluded the whole Wuhan hi Raya fair
ain't no thang and then punk group of
five was disbanded in this group was
replaced by a new body called the
central Cultural Revolution group well
the head started to roll now if the
likes of you know the most sacred of
cows like bun John and Laurie Ching
weren't safe well from the Oh she'll
cheat down which was just about
everybody they had to be wondering if
that coming tsunami was gonna hit them
too
then came May 1966 this is when things
really begin to ramp up the next head to
get chopped was another I guess you
could call him up you know good and
decent and devoted communist the
cultural Minister Liu tae-hee was a punk
man all the way and it was looting Yi
who had you know he was the one who have
been keeping all the most exciting
leftist writings you know regarding
culture and propaganda out of the party
line he had been punk I to deflect all
these Maoist voices that were trying to
challenge the stalwarts running China in
the early 60s so Lu de went down in
flames I mean get into details here but
the whole matter of how Lin Bo brought
about his downfall ranks as one of the
most fascinating and bizarre school
is in party history for the month of May
in 1966 Leo xiaochi had to lead the
charge against all his friends allies
and comrades
Pung John Laurie Ching loudini young
Shawn couldn't all of them guilty on all
charges against them none of which could
be proved but suffice to say these men
failed to place their chips on Chairman
Mao and after living in limbo for so
long their fates were finally sealed
lined up against what was now referred
to officially as the pong law new young
anti-party cleek were the forces of Mao
led by Kang Chang Chang Ching Chen hua
Jiang wen Zhao yah when you're in Kuan
Fung cheap on you Wang Li mu Xin and a
power base of young left-leaning radical
followers of Mao Zedong Thought in the
strictest sense
these numbers were not small mound
exactly what kind of team he was
building this group by the way became
the central power inside the Cultural
Revolution group and it was this group
that Mao used as his primary instrument
of terror and authority for the entirety
of the Cultural Revolution but what
about Joanne lie
where did he stand I suppose there are
many different ways to look at this I'm
of the position always have been that
Joanne lied did what he had to do he was
always mouths number two even though the
Osho Chi ranked him in the official
pecking order he did what he had to do
and on May 21st 1966 Jo had to stand
before his old friends and allies and
say quote in less than half a year the
true faces of the four big families
meaning Poong Lulu yang have been fully
exposed this has not been a simple
matter the struggle had only just begun
when they took our positions away one by
one now we must take them back one by
one they wave the red banner to oppose
the red banner and have spread plenty of
toxin now that this time bomb has been
removed the center is even more you know
Joe and Lai everybody so we're off and
running the first major purge of the
Cultural Revolution now done they had
fallen from power these four now came
the brutal violence and humiliation this
was carried out with gusto in the first
week of June and in the months and years
to follow not just these guys as we
learned from the previous episodes
covering thumb Xiao ping boy oh boy and
Xi Jinping everyone and that person's
immediate orbit was also sucked into the
vortex wives sons daughters close aides
political allies there was no escape
the entirety of Poong Jun's team was
gutted it's still in the ramping up
stage here in mid-1966 once it gets
whipped up into a frenzy
later 66 and all of 67 it becomes
unstoppable and just takes on a life of
its own next major one to go was the
ethnic Mongol rule on foo he was sort of
he had always been a poster boy of you
know showing how far any one of the 56
ethnic minorities could go in the new
China mulan foo was a vice-premier which
if you ask me he's pretty high up
anyways he fell in August 16th 1966
going down in flames as quote the
biggest party power holder taking the
capitalist road in the Inner Mongolia
autonomous region and then the suicides
begin to happen with greater frequency
may June 1966 many who knew they faced
the cruelest of fates took their own
lives rather than be allowed to fall
into the unforgiving maw of the
unfolding Cultural Revolution and just
because these people who killed
themselves were dead the struggle went
on against their husbands wives children
you'll remember boy he bore his wife
during her period of incarceration
during the Cultural Revolution she was
driven to suicide that is if she wasn't
killed outright yeah it was all starting
to happen right about now summer 1966
the swinging 60s
we already saw a wound on Shing took
over from young shun-kun in the general
office and none other than
Marshall yet geunyang took over from the
Fallen wall reaching now this is
important because these two yeah and
Wong are gonna later play a starring
role when the end finally comes in
October 76 but it's here these two rise
to these great heights of power things
were looking up for Chairman Mao his
plan to utilize Jiang Qing to light a
brush fire that smoked out Poong John
and led to the fall of Poong hua Luo and
yang worked brilliantly
those guys were out and Mao was stuffing
the bureaucracy with his people with Lin
Bo he already had the army and the
entire security apparatus he had the
finest and leftist writers and
intellectuals spewing out his Dogma and
getting his word out now came the main
event for Mao and this was to overthrow
China's head of state none other than
Leo Shao Qi himself to achieve this end
Mao came up with a rather extreme plan
his plan was to carefully orchestrate
what amounted to mass chaos on the
streets that no one could possibly
control it would be full-scale shock and
awe tactics but without the bombs and
bullets it would be like nothing ever
seen before in PRC history and when it
was all over
miles seemed pretty sure he'd get his
man now it's important to remember up to
now the Cultural Revolution that you
know we all are familiar with that
ruined so many people's lives it hadn't
really started yet the circles you know
these guys like Punk John lutein ye the
circles they walked and were you know a
million miles away from you know what
the normal guy on the street faced you
know but that was all about to change
intellectuals on the right where the
first ones to see what was coming and
those on the left particularly the
extreme left they thought their moment
of revenge was coming they just needed
some dictator with absolute power and
authority to sort of sanction whatever
destruction and killing they were you
know about to do in just as Wu Hans play
hydrate dismissed from office was used
as the spark to bring down the first
wave of political victims
so it was that nuances big character
poster or dots little ball was used to
create chaos inside Peking University
and from there the conflagration spread
throughout China's middle schools and
universities near urines
was distantly related to Marshall and
yeah wrong John and to make a long story
short because I want to start to line
things up before we call it a day she
was one of many leftists you know with
an axe to grind against a whole bunch of
people who she felt had slighted her
didn't show her the respect she felt she
was due near insula went as far back as
Yin Tong and now she was 45 years old
working in the philosophy department of
Peking University and just as Mao sent
Jung Ching to talk to y'all when your
end to make the opening chest move
against hyung-jun this time the sinister
kung son sent his wife its how y'all to
go talk to ya you and who they knew from
their yen on days it's how you o
whispered the right things in her air
and made it be known that whatever she
says no one's gonna touch her she was
untouchable
I just want to interject here you had
three wives throughout the entirety of
the Cultural Revolution just stirred
things up the most
there was Jung King of course my wife
then you also hits Howie oh who I said
was Kong Hong's
wife and a lie and then there was Lin
Gaels wife yet Rijn and as we trudged
through the history of the Cultural
Revolution time and again these three
women will rare their ugly heads
destroying lives wherever they went
so anyways in her infinite wisdom what
nians
did with its how Yeo's coaching and her
husband Kang Sheng also participating in
the setup of this intricate drama always
behind the scenes of course they decided
that Nia should write a dots above a big
character poster and so on the fateful
day of May 25th 1966 at 2:00 p.m. in the
afternoon
Nia ensel's dots a ball gets pasted up
in Peking University and it directly
attacked the
diversity leadership chiefly a man by
the name of looping but in May 1966 he
was fighting for his life after being
attacked so openly and brazenly at the
end of time when the world for so many
in China was beginning to tip over on
its side his protectors Poong John and
Luke ding Yi they were gone
these Peking University leaders they
were on their own and Nyanza and her
closest comrades in this act in this
drama they knew it they knew the
university establishment was totally
unprotected so that's when it all
started the flames that started burning
were quickly fanned and by the evening
of May 25th even Joe and I had to get
involved in chat board I use freaking
out Pung successor Li Shu Fung had to
personally go down to Peking U and
appeal to the students to please be more
orderly and carrying out their
revolution this was a very provocative
act me again so did she didn't only
attack the university leadership she
also attacked the whole Beijing
Municipal Committee there was a lot of
fighting all over the campus by what she
did you know some work of course for her
and some against what she did thought
she had gone too far so while this raged
within the walls of Peking University
Tong Chung dutifully sent a copy of the
poster to Mao who you know remembers
still down in the south and hangzhou so
he receives the poster on June 1st
while forces on both sides were arguing
the merits of the dots of ball down in
Beijing Chairman Mao wrote on the poster
the following words which made
everything a hundred percent clear for
all to understand he wrote quote it is
very important that this text to be
broadcast in its entirety by the Xinhua
news agency and published in all the
nation's newspapers now thus meshing of
the reactionary stronghold that his
Peking University can begin unquote
and so at 8:30 that night the content of
the poster was broadcast on the radio
then the next day on June 2nd 1966 the
poster was printed in the People's Daily
then there was also this accompanying
essay written by Chen Bo da that you
know come
lately gave the thumbs up for you know
nuances nots of Paul and Leo xiaochi the
number-two man in the whole party he was
left out of the loop he was finding
stuff out only as it happened and he was
the number two man in the country my
successor so why was no not keeping him
informed pretty drastic things began to
happen classes at all levels ceased in
Beijing and then on June 13th this
cessation of classes when nationwide no
school every all school was out nobody
went to classes anymore
the first week of June 1966 was when you
really notice for the first time
something abnormal was going on they
were teaming it was factional fighting
that broke out in the universities and
all school authorities were being
attacked on June 9th Neosho Chi flew
down to hangzhou with done shopping Chen
Botha and Tao true to basically tell mom
things were sort of spiraling out of
control and for something this big they
needed his leadership on the spot now
spare you the details but they all went
back to Beijing signs Mao they went back
empty-handed
that's when Leo and dung knew Chairman
Mao was gonna let them dangle and you
know become consumed by everything that
was about to happen but the funny thing
was no one knew yet what was about to
happen in a way it was starting to look
like the old 1957 anti-rightist campaign
but it quickly got much uglier than that
and everyone in some position of
authority held their breath Leo and Tung
went back and tried to deal with the
situation but it was like trying to put
out a house on fire with one bucket of
water at a time even before they left to
see Mao things in Beijing we're starting
to spin out of control
so what Leo xiaochi and thunk shall
Payne did was to set up these work teams
400 and all that fanned out across the
middle schools and universities and
Beijing Shanghai and elsewhere Leo and
Don were pinning their hopes on these
work teams going out and meeting with
these students and letting them blow off
some steam and then after a while things
would settle down and wherever these
work teams went they saw thousands and
thousands of dots of bow everywhere some
you know long-winded and some only
several characters in length the first
targets were the leaders of the
universities and the professors and
teachers everyone was doing their
damnedest to somehow someway not be
branded as some part of some
counter-revolutionary black gang if you
had that taint then you became an
instant target when these were days when
the students were just screaming at each
other in the first struggle sessions
started breaking out there was a
particularly violent one that broke out
at Peking you on June 18th and this date
Paul McCartney's 24th birthday the first
real violence of the Cultural Revolution
happens
60 Peking University Professors
lecturers party cadres were gathered
together in a makeshift stage and just
manhandled Cultural Revolution style you
know this included you know the usual
stuff
Danse hats having insulting words pinned
to their clothes having the faces
smeared with black ink being forced to
kneel in uncomfortable positions for a
long period of time having half their
heads shaved having their clothes torn
pretty soon this will be a normal
everyday thing but on June 18th 1966 it
was pretty shocking and unprecedented as
people began to see the writing on the
wall
many tried to inoculate themselves from
future potential attack by going on the
offensive and directly attacking their
friends colleagues even family this is
where people's survival instincts took
over and they did what they had to do
and all the wild mob remained coy
hanging back and you know getting
constant updates and it's important to
note that the updates were all coming
from the top people of the Cultural
Revolution group who were about as
self-serving a lot as you could possibly
think of and so it went on for the rest
of June and these work groups did their
best to try and establish some semblance
of order but the hot-headed students you
saw them is the establishment just
trying to neutralize them and shut them
up
this period where the work teams were
sent out was known as the fifty days for
these approximately 50 days Wow
slowly allowed Leo and dung to hang
themselves he knew there was nothing
they can do and if they tried to restore
order
they were counter-revolutionary if they
did nothing they would be swallowed up
by the events violently unfolding june
turned into July and now Mao was getting
ready to spring his trap
he made a well-publicized visit to his
old hometown of Shao Shang during the
closing days of June 1966 then on July
16th of that year he did something
incredibly dramatic there was an annual
event held in Wuhan where locals would
swim across the eunsuh as a show of
endurance and stamina and in the 11th
year of this events running Mao decided
to join in and the 72 year old Chairman
joined 5,000 others in swimming across
the youngster he was in the water for
something like 65 minutes and swam it
said for ten miles
now the symbolism of this event was not
lost on anyone
this was Chairman Mao letting everyone
know he still had it two days later he
makes his first return to Beijing in
nine months remember him bolted back in
October 1965 to the south to plan this
grand strategy well now he was back he
went straight to the jolly tide
guesthouse compound where the Cultural
Revolution group was holed up when Leo
Shao Qi heard Mao was in situ he sought
him out but was turned away at the door
I had no time to see his number two but
Mao did make time to meet with Kong Chun
and Chen Bordeaux Leo got some face time
with Mal the next day and Mao just
dumped on him Mao tells Leo he's totally
dissatisfied with how he handled things
with this Cultural Revolution up till
now then on July 24 25 26 Mao calls a
meeting of all the top leaders to his
villa at the AL you tie in his pajamas
less Malby rates those who had the
audacity to send out these work teams
that suppress the students and prevented
them from carrying out revolution so if
you read between the lines ma was saying
how dare any of you try to prevent chaos
from erupting he demanded that all these
work teams be recalled and Mao was
incensed that the work teams were trying
to suppress the students not learn from
them
well we'll close with miles final act in
July of 1966 and July 29th there was
this big rally held at the Great Hall of
people 10,000 students and teachers
packed inside to hear thunk shellping
Joe and ly and Leo xiaochi one-by-one
explain what the Cultural Revolution was
supposed to be and listened you know as
they back pedaled and on the
heavy-handed tactics that the work teams
used and carrying out their work in the
crowd also listen to these leaders
uncertainty about what the Cultural
Revolution was supposed to be all about
and then suddenly he appeared
unannounced and unbeknownst to the three
leaders there he was all along behind a
curtain secretly listening to everything
being said and not agreeing with
anything of course and he suddenly walks
onto the stage to thunderous applause
and pandemonium of course and you know
chairs of long lived Chairman Mao and
you know what not this marked the end of
the so-called 50 days now things were
gonna take a different course on the one
hand Leo and dong must have felt
relieved that Chairman Mao was back in
town to maintain order but on the other
hand they soon found out all Mao was
about to do was just pour gasoline on
the fire and that all his wrath was
about to be focused on them and we're
gonna pick up next time to see how this
you know all plays out we'll pick up in
August 1966 with the 16-point decision
in Mao's own dots appalled when the
Cultural Revolution starts to pick up
more steam this is Laszlo Montgomery
signing off from high above midtown
Manhattan in New York City no I'm not
here for the Facebook IPO I'm here for a
trade show in to visit cus
back in Clairemont sometime next week
and I'm already counting down the
seconds to that
take care all my wonderful and
good-looking listeners and I hope you'll
come back next time for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast